# Company-Api

## Recruitment task

### Task description
Write a simple REST API for managing companies and its employees.git ad
For this task i had to make a series of assumptions that are listed below.
1. The employee cannot exist without company
2. The company can exist without employees
3. The employee can be assigned to only one company
4. When we delete company we delete all employees from this company (Look point 1)

### Used technologies
1. Php 8.1
2. Laravel 10
3. Laravel - sail (docker) v. 1
4. Mysql database
5. Swagger for api documentation
6. Phpunit for tests

### How to run
1. Clone repository
2. Run `make up` to start docker containers
3. Run `make composer` to install dependencies
4. Run `make migrate` to run migrations and seeders
5. Run `make tests` to run tests
6. Run `make swagger` to generate swagger [documentation](http://localhost/api/documentation) 
7. Run `make bash` to run artisan commands

### Realization
The task has been done mostly to show some general ideas about Laravel capabilities as well as some ideas about folder
structure and code organization. Many of those depend on actual business requirements and are not always the best and
should be modified to best suit given requirements. In a small project many of the ideas would be over-engineering while
in bigger projects they would be a must to ensure code quality and maintainability. I followed the SOLID principles
as well as implemented single action controllers, followed the repository pattern, used dependency injection, tried to
divide the layers of application and keep the code simple and easy to be expanded. The tests have been written to ensure
that api works for consumption by frontend. The tests could be more thorough and cover more edge cases. All tests are
written with AAA principle in mind, divided by a white line. To simplify the swagger documentation annotations have
been generated by OpenAi.
